# Adaptive-Batch-Design-for-Gaussian-Process
This is the supplementary material for the paper "Adaptive Batching for Gaussian Process Surrogates with Application in Noisy Level Set Estimation" 

## GPstuff
The package is built on GPstuff toolbox, which is initially written by Jarno Vanhatalo, Jaakko Riihimäki, Jouni Hartikainen, Pasi Jylänki, Ville Tolvanen, and Aki Vehtari (2013). GPstuff: Bayesian Modeling with Gaussian Processes. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 14(Apr):1175-1179. The GPstuff toolbox is a collection of Gaussian Process models and computational tools required for inference. The tools include variance inference methods and sparse approximations. The toolbox works with MATLAB and can be called in R with Octave. Detailed installing instructions are included in the manual paper. The package shown here is slightly different from the original GPstuff package, with adjustments to make it more stable and work for sequential design based framework. Besides, we added our own codes in two new folders `batch_design` and `am_put_oracle`, which include implementations of adaptive batch design and its application in American put/call option examples.

## Batch Design
We implemented the adaptive batch design algorithms mentioned in the paper: FB, RB, MLB and ABSUR. All adaptive batch design implementations are created by us for the paper "Adaptive Batching for Gaussian Process Surrogates with Application in Noisy Level Set Estimation" and included in folder `batch_design`. We also coded the synthetic experiments including 1D exponential function, 2D Brannin-Hoo function and 6D Hartman function in `syntheticExperiments`. It also serves as a demo file, where users can change the true functions combined with different noise and use different model and batch sequential design algorithms. The computation is done in a parallel way. The `updategp` function is a wrapper function to generate the whole designs with observations and batch size. The Gaussian Process is fitted with functions in GPstuff. 

## American Put/Call Option
We implemented estimation of optimal stopping criteria for American put/call option in folder `am_put_oracle`. The package now supports average baskets put option and max call option. We simulate the asset price using Geometric Brownian Motion. The optimal stopping criteria are estimated with a backward strategy fitted by Gaussian Processes in adaptive batch design framework. The backward strategy together with sequential design for GP is wrapped in function `osp_seq_design`. A demo for 2D average baskets put option is included in `am_put_demo`. Users can change the parameters or use the same parameters provided in the paper to obtain results for max call option. In the end of the demo, the payoff of testing designs is calculated and it works as measurement of performance of algorithms in American option examples.

## To Start
- Run `syntheticExperiments` in folder `batch_design` to construct sequential designs for the synthetic experiments in Section 4. It will return the designs `x_seq`, observations `y_seq`, batch size `r_seq`, empirical error `ee`, error rate `er`, bias `bias`, time `t`, posterior mean `Ef` and posterior variance `Varf` at all testing samples. Change variable `fun` to run synthetic experiments of other true functions. Change variable `k` to increase or decrease the number of runs.
- Run `am_put_demo` in folder `am_put_oracle` to construct American put/call option optimal stopping critera and its payoff. Variable `put2d` is returned, which is a list with length equal to the length of time intervals for the option, storing GP fit, designs, observations and batch size at each time step. Then we use it to calculate the payoff `payoff_gp` at the starting time. In the end, for the 2D American put/call option, we visualize the zero-contour at one step using `plot_2d_amput` or `plot_2d_amcall`. Right now the demo is for one run of experiments. To obtain results in Section 5, the user can loop with `osp_seq_design` function and construct a structure of list for variable `put2d`. To obtain results for call option, change `model.option_payoff` into `maxCall` and change the related parameters including strike price `K`, initial design `x0` and so on. Results in table 1 are mean of `payoff_gp` based on 20 runs of experiments.
